[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish,
a weekly podcast coming to you from four undisclosed locations in the UK.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I'm sitting here with James Harkin,
Anna Tyshinski and Andrew Hunter Murray and once again we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order here we go.
Starting with fact number one and that's my fact. My fact this week is that in the 1910s
animal dances including the camel walk, the turkey trot, the crab step, the chicken flip,
and the kangaroo dip was so controversial they were banned at the White House,
condemned by the Pope and warned against by doctors. Wow, why were they so bad? Were they
sexy? I bet they were sexy dances they always are aren't they? I watched the turkey trot,
you could argue there's a bit of sex in there but ultimately you just look like an idiot I think.
I mean what could sound sexier than the crab step? It's very raunchy stuff, the chicken flip,
there are all these, no the sloth squeeze was another one? Yeah, the boll weevil wiggle,
that was another one. It doesn't exactly sound like twerking, it's they're quite, they're very tame
from. They were tame, yeah but they were sort of that moment where it felt like people were
liberating and this was seen as people going out and having a wild time and they really did take
it seriously so a number of US cities really cracked down on it and in Boston, John F. Kennedy's
grandfather who was the mayor ordered it so that there was a matron and policeman posted to every
dance hall in the city and they would crack down on anyone they saw doing that. They had people,
just police forces out arresting whole groups, it was a bit of a mania. A lot of the reporters at
the time said they were, to be fair to the people banning them, actual imitations of the sex acts
of these animals. Now it is quite difficult to believe that when you watch for instance a turkey
trot which sort of involves jumping, hopping to one side and then hopping to the other side and
then flapping your wings a bit but they were meant to be kind of re-enacting sex between these
creatures. It feels to me that if that's the way turkeys have sex then we'd all be going hungry at
Christmas because there would be not many bacon turkeys around. Well as no doubt people would
mention I don't think any turkey that we eat has sex does it? I think oh my god imagine if the
turkey trot dance was someone extracting some semen from your penis and then putting it in a
little test tube and then shoving it into your partner. It would be the turkey base instead of
the turkey trot as a dance. I really like what you said about the White House Dan. This is amazing
that in 1913 there was going to be an inaugural ball for President Woodrow Wilson, obviously very
exciting and then it was cancelled because just because of the risk that people might start doing
the turkey trot and he denied that but the ball was cancelled it didn't go ahead and so there was
no chance for anyone to do the the grizzly bear. Yeah he denied it probably because it wasn't
true. Charlie that wasn't the reason. It was on the front page of the New York Times so the headline
was Wilson banned ball fearing turkey trot and that was on Jan 13th 1913 and it was a big story but
obviously yeah he denied that that would happen but it was it was a real story. It was from White
House Insiders so it was just I reckon he probably did ban it because of that. It was probably like
I don't love spending all this money and he might have been specifically worried about his
daughters who are massive fans of animal dances so he knew he knew the underworld of animal dancing.
So one person who intervened in this debate was the ex-president of the University of Missouri's
medical school. He was a guy called Dr. S Grover and he claimed in 1915 that it led to insanity
to do these dances. He said many of the cases of insanity developed in the United States within
the last few years may be traced to modern eccentric dances. One tenth of the insane of this country
have lost their mind on account of troubles which may commonly be traced to modern dances.
One in ten. They also said that it would give you some kind of foot illness didn't it? It was like
there was like a turkey trot photo turkey trot and stuff or something like that which would
make you lame if you did this too much. But then some doctors said it was good for you so there
was a doctor called Dr. A. A. Brill who sounds like a really good doctor and he said that modern
dances should be considered beneficial and they're soothing to the pop place as rocking is to an infant.
So like when you're rock and rolling you're also kind of being rocked like a baby.
It's like everything. It's probably best done in moderation isn't it? I'm sure if you did dance for
14 hours a day you would actually get quite sore feet and I think that's absolutely fair enough.
I just think it's unlikely many people were doing that. Yeah. And it was I think it was tango foot
was the precursor to that which was a big scare. There was a really nice news article from 1914
which pointed out that no sooner has a new entrancing diversion come in than someone appears
to forbid it and it pointed out that tango foot is the modern version of bicycle knee and automobile
face which I think I feel like we may have talked about those before. Also movie eye he said people
used to tell us we'd all get movie eye from the cinemas and we haven't and it was quite a good
article to remind you that whenever there's a new trend everyone always says this is going to ruin
us. Yeah I always get Pokemon shin and Fortnite anus. We've got anyone binging us watch out for
podcast ear lobe. Oh yeah. I want to know what Fortnite's anus is. Well the problem is people
sit down playing video games for too long right and they sit in the same place and it can give you
problems like tiles and hemorrhoids. No no no I'm making it all up. Oh okay I've just started
playing Fortnite and I need to know if my anus is safe. You're allowed for no more than two weeks
after that it's a problem. One of these animal dances survives today which is so exciting because
I've never heard of the bunny hug or the there were others called the like the buzzard lobe. There
was one called the fish walk. Did you hear that one? I mean that is the one thing that fish don't do.
Yeah insane but the one that survived into the modern age is the bunny hug because it kind of
became the fox trot and the fox trot was coined and popularized around the same time as all these
other dances and it was refined a bit and you know there are various sources to who exactly came up
with it but it's basically a slightly more neat version of the bunny hug. But it's not named
after the fox right it was named after a guy called fox that's what most people think these days.
I didn't know that. Yeah there was a guy called fox who was like the guy who popularized the
fox trot and they think although it makes much more sense if there was a you know a grizzly bear
jump and a bunny hug it makes sense that it would be named after a fox. All these dances were named
after people the the turkey trot was named after Sir Leonard Turkey and yeah well the bunny hug
there is a famous version of it being danced in a movie starring a man called John Bunny but he
didn't invent it I think that just happened to be a coincidence. Really? Yeah he's one of the most
well-known comedians of his day in America I've never heard of him but he's got a huge
what was he called? John Bunny. Not Jack Benny you just misread it. Yeah John Bunny. So speaking
of band dances have you guys heard of the cushion dance? No I haven't. This is the 16th 17th century
version of the turkey trot because it was a scandalous sexy dance and what it is is you run
around the place with a cushion for a bit you dance around holding a cushion and then you put it down
in front of a woman and she will kneel on it and then you give her. Give you a blow job. No
you give her a kiss on the cheek and then you pick up the cushion and you dance around a bit
more and it's very innocent and sweet. It's not as sexy as I thought it was going to be.
I sort of assumed the blow, I mean that's what you're led to believe by the description.
It's a completely innocuous dance but it was very scandalous at the time.
Oh god I'm blushing over zoom. Take your camera down. Did the woman get to get up before you took
the cushion out or was it a sort of tablecloth trick where you spawn her off the cushion?
I don't know maybe she gets the cushion then. I haven't actually got the full mechanics of
it worked out. Maybe it's like past the cushion and then she gets to put the cushion down in front
of someone else. Who gives her Codilingus? No okay we have to stop this. But there was a
worry right. I read about this cushion dance which they were saying a story that in 1633
the idea is that it would lead to sexual acts and a couple were accused I think after maybe having
done this dance and taking it a bit further of having sex against the village maypole.
That's going to be uncomfortable. Yeah you're going to end up with maypole anus.
The only reason they were found out was because apparently there was a bell on top of it which
they didn't know about which was alerting the neighbour. That's the story all right. If I had
to write that up in a 16th century newspaper I would make the headline maypole sauce okay.
So it's like a pun on maypole sauce but it's the saucy thing happening up against the maypole.
Did they have maypole sauce back then? No they didn't I guess. Wow so you would have been going
to get a whole new 1633 yeah they had maypole sauce. It's always called maypole syrup so I don't
know why we're even talking about it. The animal dances were part of the ragtime genre really
weren't they? It was just part of the much broader ragtime era which is basically the first jazz or
the precursor to jazz. It's the first time you started having syncopated ragged rhythm and the
story of ragtime is just it's kind of cool. It's this Scott Joplin who's the king of ragtime.
He'd been born to a former enslaved person who used to play the violin for plantation parties so
that's where he got his musical skill and he died eventually in 1917 I think of syphilis and he died
really upset that he'd never been able to be famous for a serious music and today he gets 200,000
listens a month on Spotify which is just such a nice thing to not be able to tell him. Yeah and he
will be I guess he'll be able to earn 15 cents from those 200,000. But luckily the turn of the
20th century that will have bought him a lot of stuff right so the problem is not that Spotify
isn't paying people enough it's that they're not paying people 100 years ago. Oh I think we're just
about guaranteed we still get to be hosted cool. The conga was illegal in Cuba for a while I don't
think it still is might be. This was due to a politician called Desiderio and as the second
and the reason was because it had come over to Cuba from Africa and they thought that it had
lots of immoral gestures and semi-naked people doing the conga everywhere. Like at weddings.
Yeah that conga you know where you hold onto the waist of someone behind. Now we do the blowjob.
So it was banned by this politician but then the politician ended up being put in prison like
politicians often do in some countries and the son of the politician called Desi Arnaz he
fled to America and then became like the king of the conga. Like he went around the whole of America
touring going on TV going to all the different cities teaching them the conga and what I like
to think is that when he went from one city to the other everyone just followed him and did the
conga with him from you know LA to San Francisco to Seattle. You can see the king of conga coming
from a long way away if you run his way into town. I'm very impressed if you managed to make a living
out of teaching people the conga because I would say it is at maximum my one lesson dance unless
it's got all right but I last did it. 300 million people in America that's a lot of lessons.
Yeah and you didn't even know you're supposed to take your clothes off and
Okay it is time for fact number two and that is James. Okay my fact this week
is that there is a type of pasta that only three women in the world know how to make.
Oh will we have heard of it? Is it fusilli? It's not going to be spaghetti is it? It's not
going to be. They're amazingly productive like they're kingpins. You will have heard of it because
you've spent the last couple of days researching about it but I think the people at home will not
have heard of it so this is called Su Filendeu literally threads of God and it's a Sardinian
pasta and it's made once a year for the feast of San Francisco and there is basically a group of
women who have always been able to make it and they pass the recipe down to their daughters who
pass it down to their daughters who pass it down to their daughters but there are only three women
left who know how to do it really. One of them is a lady called Paola Abrini and her niece and her
sister-in-law all know how to do it but her daughters aren't really that interested they kind of know
the technique but it's really really complicated and they're not particularly good at it and because
all these three women who are doing it are all kind of I wouldn't say old but getting that way
you know in the 50s and 60s the people are a little bit worried that this might die out so
we need to get more people learning quick and we tried to teach Jamie Oliver but he just couldn't
hack it. Well this is the weird thing about it it's that it's not even like it's a secret recipe
it's not something that they're hiding they're constantly trying to teach it to people
including Jamie Oliver and after a few hours of like nah bullshit I'm not doing this. Are we
serious that Jamie Oliver's tried to learn it? Yeah he tried to do it he tried to do it for two
hours and gave up. Wow. It's for the people at home I'll tell you how to do it because I know
how to do it basically you get some semolina wheat you get some water you get some salt you need it
and need it and need it and then at just the right moment which is the main difficult part
then you put it into loads and loads of really really really fine strings you get 256 of these
filaments and you put them all together and then kind of mesh them all up and then cut it up and
then that's your pasta and then you put it with some tasty sheep's broth and some pecorino cheese
bish bash bosh that's basically a hello fresh recipe that I've given you there isn't it? Yeah
it went a bit Jamie Oliver at the end when he's a bish bash bosh and he's a pucker.
It's like that is the thing if you do get a hello fresh and it is the Sue Philandau meal
it will take you exactly 48 years to do this. Although it wouldn't be it would be one of those
annoying recipes because that's just the prep so it would say cook time 12 minutes and then at the
very end it would say prep time 10 years and lifetime yeah so actually lots of people know
how to make it it's just the fact that only three people can make it. Yeah it's really really difficult
because you just need to get at exactly the right moment it's the elasticity of the dough that you
need to get perfectly right because if you don't do it perfectly you can't make these threads thin
enough and you can only do it from playing with the dough and just knowing from generation on
generation and generation and knowledge to knowledge to knowledge just knowing the exact
moment to do it. But the other thing is it's given an impression that it's much harder to learn
because you know Jamie Oliver stopped after two hours I think it's fair enough that he didn't
master it in two hours this has been a generational thing that's passed on that's you know you need
two weeks. Because if you're Jamie Oliver if you're Jamie Oliver you can in that time you could
have made eight of your 15 minute meals. That's an interesting way of cooking. I did read because
these women they're as you said James right they're in the same family so one of their male
relatives is currently one of the Luke Skywalker figures who is in the process of learning how to
make it to their Yoda. He's obviously also I guess Sardinian he's called Leo Gilsemino
and he's Aussie. Well he's Australian. Yeah I mean he's their family so I don't know when
he moved to Australia or when the family moved but yeah they've given him a little masterclass
and he has a certificate but I think he's still in the training zone. Yeah so basically it's kind
of a tradition where they have these kind of matrilineal or matriarchal cuisines which you do
pass on from mother to daughter to daughter to daughter but because they're so worried about
this dying out they have recently said okay we're going to let men do it as well
and they are trying to teach more and more people. I actually read this article in the BBC I think it
was in 2016 so it could be possible that few people have picked it up since then but if they
have they won't be nearly as good as these three women who absolutely smash it every time because
they don't have the special sense. Is that you know we've done how you know we have more than five
senses. Is the special ability to feel pasta. I don't think that's an X-Men character we're
going to see covered up. Actually I just thought of something which is that you know how we were
talking about maple sauce earlier on Andy. Yes well the related food maple syrup is also was
traditionally a thing that passed from mother to daughter to mother to daughter because in the
first peoples tribes of Canada you the men would often go out hunting and the women would be in
charge of all of the planting and stuff like that and the maple syrup came in that territory
and so you would as a woman you would go to your maple grove and you would get the syrup every year
which would give lots of energy to your to your tribes but you would pass on the knowledge to
your daughter and you would even pass on your groves to your daughter as well so wherever
your grove of maples was that would be yours through generations through generations through
generations so there are quite a few of these kind of metrilineal cuisines around the world
and you pass that would be you pass on the knowledge of you make a hole in the tree and wait
for the stuff to come out of it because that I like did the women tell the men it was a really
complicated process it's the equivalent of the conga king passing it on to his conga son
he's next in line literally first you put a hole in the tree then you wait for the sap to come out
no because actually there's more to it with maple syrup oh you've got to concentrate it a little
bit you've got to lose some of the fluids you have to leave it out overnight so it freezes and all
the water comes to the top and then you skim off the water and then you boil it to get rid of more
of the water it's like that's what my mum told me anyway just on pasta shapes oh yeah do you guys
know you know the tortelloni the little wrapped up parcel thing uh yeah I think I call it tortellini
I call it tortellini oh I'm sorry tortellini sorry sorry tortellini that shape is supposedly based
on Lucrezia Borgia's naval and you know Lucrezia Borgia of the famous poisoning but aristocratic
Borgia family she was staying in an inn uh in Italy and the innkeeper um was so excited to have
this beautiful aristocratic lady in his inn that he crept up to the keyhole to have a to have a
perv but all he could see was the naval through her navel through the door but what a naval foar
and he rushed down to the kitchen to recreate it making pasta for him that's a terrible ouchy she
had isn't it it's an absolutely fucked up umbilical cord coming right there and he um also the next
day he went up and saw her husband and invented the Bologna sausage didn't he do you know when
my past has so many different shapes um well I think people think they know or the theory is
that the reason it does and it is a ridiculous number so there are more than 300 pasta shapes and
I think 1300 different pasta names and it's partly because it was so it was such rivalry
throughout Italy so some of the earliest Italian gills were pasta guilds the vermicelli and the
macaroni and um you'd have lots of little different localities trying to rival each
other's pasta quality with their own pasta and so you made it into one into a bow tie and then
you'd make your own spiral to be like our spirals are better than their bow ties and it was very
heated and they used to get so I mean they got so competitive that the pope had to step in a few
times I think between pasta guilds and he ruled in the 1400s he ruled that pasta making illegal
pasta making would be punished by a fine and three lashings of a whip because you know if you're
not allowed if you're not in the guild that's allowed to make that twirly pasta then you're
going to be beaten I tell you what I didn't really appreciate until we did the research for this
episode how busy the pope's life actually is he's just constantly banning pasta shapes or turkey
trot dances the guy's furious calling out stuff he's got a lot on yeah there was actually um with
what you were saying with these sort of um these guilds and so on it it went a bit further in the
Renaissance courts there was there's one particular pasta shape which is causetti which um the idea is
that it's imprinted with the coat of arms of the royal families that would eat it so you would have
these these pieces of pasta that would each have the coat of arms to where you were eating on your
plate which is pretty extraordinary I love that as a yeah because they're all they're all very there's
this great book called the encyclopedia of pasta I don't know if you guys read about it in the course
of this research by oretta what's it about oretta zanini devita is her name and she's went round
italy just asking every local person from a different town city village about the story
behind a different kind of famous local pasta and she created this encyclopedia so it's a real
firsthand encyclopedia and it's got all the stories about how the shapes came about there's
the ave Maria pasta which is a great little one that's simply it's not anything to do with the
shape it's about the timing of what you cook it for so you chuck it into the boiling water and if
you say a hail mary that's how long you cook it for the ave Maria um and there's a apparently a
whole trinity of different pastas uh with the different lengths uh that you say the prayer to
that will be the perfect cooking doesn't feel like a particularly long amount of time to cook pasta
say the hail mary i don't know how long it takes to say a whole mary okay hail mary follow grace
along it's with the dressed up that looks women invest in the fruits of thy womb jesus holy mary
mother of god pray to us sinners now at the hour of death amen do you have a very quickly you're
i think your pasta's very authentic change to be the most annoying priest as he's powering through
the entire sermon hey i had to go through a lot of confessions in my time and had to get through a
lot of hail maries okay it is time for fact number three and that is andy my fact is that every hour
the buglers of krakow have to climb 272 steps play five notes then walk back down again
and this is a job that you can have if you're a bugler and you live in krakow um they have this
church called st mary's basilica and since 1392 uh on and off they've been doing this thing where
every hour there's a bugle call from the top um it's called mary's fanfare it's only got five
notes in it so actually it's it's not it goes up and down a bit and it takes about i don't know
half a minute to play so it goes up and down but only on those five notes um and you play the tune
to each point of the compass and um and then you stop and then you go back down again and then the
next hour you climb back up again but actually don't you stop the fourth time you do it you stop
halfway through i read um that's because in 1241 there was a bugler who was like telling about
some mongols who were attacking the city and he was shot by an arrow uh halfway through his bugle
and so in honor of this sky they they kind of stopped the last bugle well that's the story
but there's a lot of stories about krakow i learned which we might get to in a bit but go on
well it's first recorded in 1928 and from 1241 there's obviously quite a gap before anyone
wrote it down so and it's first recorded by an american author who may have been locals may have
played a trick on him but it might also have been an oral legend before that it's just that there
isn't much written record but there was actually a trumpeter who did die on duty in 1901 so only
about 20 years before this guy wrote the story down and he had played the tune three out of four
times because you do it to each point of the compass so he did it three times but then he
died of a heart condition before he could play it the fourth time so that might be where that sort
of fed into local myth and yeah yeah that must have been such a weird moment for the town when
you're waiting you're so used every hour to hearing these four and you're like what i don't
go but i thought wasn't it even um did you say the first mention of the bugler is 1928 or the
first mention of this legend is 1928 the mongol thing the bugle thing's been going for donkeys
yes yeah because i read that the bugle thing even they only used to do it sort of once a day until
the until the 20th century and then suddenly they decided to torture this guy by ramping up to once
every hour there is a they're in a squad so i think you do you have to be a fireman by the way
to have this job that's just part of the conditions for entry these days so the reason this is
current now is because they just announced they're recruiting for a new one and they've had their
first ever application from a woman for the position so great social progress is being made now if she
gets it if she gets it yeah if she gets it um but it's for the audition process and it's crazy it's
saying you got to in order to become a bugler for uh for the church you need to go through a whole
process of doing chin-ups you need a beep fitness test um they have a medicine ball tossing thing
that you need to do and you need to scale a 20 meter ladder at an angle of 75 degrees to ensure
that you're not afraid of heights but i would have thought that all these things if you're a fireman
you probably would already be able to glow up ladders wouldn't you no yeah that's true yeah i
gotta say i have been to crack off on a stag do once and i think i might be right right about saying
this is the square is basically just a load of bars all the way around it with mostly when i
went there just full of stag do's so just that's that seems to be the only people who are enjoying
these bugles is it market square is it the main square isn't it i think i remember hearing it when
i was in crack off market square was the biggest square biggest medieval square in europe i think
wasn't it it was yanesco heritage sort of it was one of the very first places to get yanesco
heritage i think yeah it is beautiful it's really big and really cool and this st murray's tower
is quite famous because it's got two towers that are slightly different heights
and i know andy's going to tell me this isn't true now but i'm going to tell the story of why
this happened so they had the church there and there was a guy who was in charge of crack off at
the time who was called juke borislaus the modest okay and he's like we need some new towers here
not too big because i'm modest but we need some new towers here we need two new towers
and they tried to find the people to do it and they got two brothers one of whom was going
to do one tower and one who would do the other tower one of the brothers did his tower and then
the other brother did his tower slightly bigger and the brother with the shorter tower got really
jealous and so killed his brother for doing such a bigger tower and then he could have made his
tower back to the equal height but then he felt so guilty about killing his brother that he didn't
do it anymore he's going to tell me that's not true either andy i'm not going to say that no way
no it's probably it's probably not true crack doesn't make up for killing your brother i'll
tell you that if i was murdered but then i found out that the person didn't actually go through
with the stupid bet we had it's still not okay to murder you no you're right but there are great
stories of crack off and i'm james the only reason i'm not going to tell you that your one isn't true
is because the only other one i know is about of crack off is about the dragon who lived under the
hill and it's a medieval story of crack off and the dragon loved eating virgins they all do don't
they it's the whole species yeah there was only one virgin left after this huge virgin eating
rampage that the dragon had been on anyway this poor cobbler filled up a sheepskin with sulfur
and salt and then left that outside the dragon's cape anyway the dragon eats it and it's so full
of salt that he feels so thirsty he drinks so much water at the dragon that he explodes and dies
and then the cobbler is rewarded by getting married to the king's daughter who happens to be the
last virgin in the city okay that's the story yeah and and the dragon's bones now hang out of the front
of vavel cathedral which is in crack off it's the big cathedral there the bones hang from the door
all the bones are they not the realness of the bones are they some bones some bones are there
they think they're quite i wish they'd study them so they're not allowed to take them down right
because there's this idea that if they fall down then the world will end immediately
so they're hung up by these chains which are constantly checked which is kind of a shame because
apparently the bones belong to some creature from the Pleistocene that mammoth or maybe a
maybe a whale and we just won't know because the only way of checking them involves the world ending
at which point i suppose you can't check the bones it's a real catch 22 they've done an
awesome statue of this dragon it was first put up i think in 1972 and they decided on to have it
brief fire huge like like a flamethrower and it used to do that every five minutes or so but
actually they've started a new service whereas you're walking by you can text the dragon and ask
it to breathe fire and we'll do it on command so it can actually go every 15 seconds if it needs to
the 15 second intervals between breathing fire um codish leaders of crack off have had fun names
over time i realized i was looking into the history of crack off like particularly like the 1200s
where the duke of crack off was called tangle foot that was in 1210 and he died and was replaced by
spindle shanks what i think there was someone in between spindle shanks replaced him and actually
spindle shanks ended up getting killed by a german girl that he was trying to sexually assault so
well done well he was she killed him so well yeah yeah well it was a bad start to the story but you
know he got his good it was a happy ending i thought spindle shanks would have been killed by
Voldemort by the sounds of him this one enemy was henry the bearded tangle foot and spindle
shanks were on the same side and then henry the bearded was their enemy and eventually became
duke of crack off cool that's great it does sound like a jk rolling plot doesn't it i really like
king zygman the old uh because him and his wife bonnar spotzer um brought super vegetables to
poland super vegetables in the 16th century that's what they're famous for i mean i what's
james i don't want to quibble but all vegetables soup vegetables well they brought she was uh
bonnar spots and was italian and so they brought a lot of um vegetables that didn't grow naturally
in um poland and they brought them over but that's what they're famous for tomatoes i suppose you
wouldn't get tomatoes in poland but you wouldn't get them anywhere in europe but she brought them
over market them as soup vegetables is that how they got them selling that's what they're known
as now like polish soup vegetables i guess um their daughter was called ana jagiellen and she
was the last female ruler of poland uh and she was basically part of the family where she was
like the youngest daughter and everyone thought that she was like an old kind of spinster who would
never get married kind of thing and then suddenly everyone else in her family died and she was going
to be the ruler of poland and suddenly she became the hottest ticket in town and um i've had the
terrible wanted to marry her and um honry val y in france wanted to marry everyone wanted to
marry all the habsbergs wanted to marry her and stuff i think this would make a great kind of
1990s teen comedy of you know like the overlooked girl suddenly becoming the hottest girl in class
kind of thing yeah you need to i think you need to rewrite the bit where sort of all her
siblings were bruceal murdered or died in horrible ways for the teen comedy audience but she's in
the poster she's surrounded by soup vegetables and she's looking to the camera and going oh i like it
well she eventually married a hungarian prince called bathery um but they didn't really get on
very well um he refused to learn polish and so they spoke through an interpreter for the rest of
his life and then eventually he died and instead of taking over herself she pushed her nephew who
was called sigman the third vassar who became actually like one of the great leaders in in polish
history there's your sequel exactly but he was actually the one who moved the capital of poland
away from krakow to warsaw so you know thoms down from this episode because the warsaw episode in
100 is he's a hero oh by the way for americans you call it krakow just in case you've been
wondering all this time what we're talking about but we call it krakow thousands of americans are
just going oh everything we've said they're like that's so weird they have that in krakow as well
i found a thing which is that america is running out of buglers and they desperately need them
they need them because in 2000 at the beginning of 2000 a new law was passed that if you were
an army veteran and you had died you were entitled to a military funeral and so what they would do
is they would have to send out three people to be their present and do a few military um uh regalia
type things one of which is they would have to play taps on the bugle taps being that song
i'm murdering that song but it's it's you know the classic american tune um now the problem is is
they don't have enough buglers to go and play this song so what they've had to invent is a ceremonial
bugle and the ceremonial bugle has inside it a sound system with the song pre-loaded so what you
end up having is these people playing the song but what they're doing is once they press down on one
of the buttons it just plays the song through a speaker system that is at the top of the bugle
and they just pretend that they're playing it because that's the best way in order to
commemorate the person who's being buried yeah dan i read about it it's so weird it seems like it's
this little black box that you shove into the end of your bugle and then you just press a button on
it and then you just hold the bugle it's really bizarre it's quite controversial isn't it because
some people are like well surely you should have a proper bugler at a funeral but then other people
say well you know what if we there is a shortage like dan says so if we don't do this we're just
going to have to have a boombox with playing the tap so that's going to be even worse but then the
other argument again is that you know when dan really murdered that tune a few seconds ago
that's kind of part of it so it's not really supposed to be perfect note for note when you play
the taps it's supposed to have emotion in it because the person who's playing it is quite upset
and so the the notes are supposed to be slightly often a bit shaky and stuff like that and you
obviously don't get that with the recording it'll get used to it it's like do you remember when
taxi drivers first started using sat nav and it was really disappointing and then you realize
that it's actually fine it's a bit like that yeah you're usually being taken three miles around the
houses and that's part of the ritual and the tradition it shows the emotion in the taxi driver
that you're being charged an extra tenor because he's not going to ask what exactly where this
which is going to be going to yeah i accidentally researched you know the band the bugles who did
video killed the radio star the bugles exactly i only realized that about an hour into my research
i spent genuinely an hour looking at every song they did to see if a bugle had ever been played
by the bugles and as far as i could find it hasn't but it doesn't matter anyway because that's not
what they're called the bugles did have a member called trevor horn so they'd get one thing out
of it so it wasn't wasted which is still not wasted now okay it is time for our final fact of the
show and that is Anna my fact this week is that when the conservationist Amy Dickman booked a
dentist appointment in Namibia she neglected to mention to the dentist that the patient
was a leopard how did the appointment go do we know it actually went quite well yeah it was a
series of appointments in the end as often happens with the dentist um and this was it was on the
BBC website a while back i think and it was an interview with her and she was saying that she
works in various african countries with threatened species she was in Namibia and she found a leopard
that got into a farmer's trap because farmers trap them to stop them killing their livestock
and she saw it had a broken canine so she anesthetized it and she called the local dentist and just
booked an appointment and then she said she arrived and there are obviously lots of people in the waiting
room who are frightened enough already because they're in a dentist waiting room and then a
leopard gets carried through and apparently the dentist really took to it after a while and
she explained it's okay i've anesthetized it so it's not going to wake up and eat you and so
the dentist was like how brilliant and they had to make a specially hard tooth for the leopard
because obviously they do much more tearing of their food than we do so he plotted using
titanium and steel and silver to make this tooth and it was basically okay well hang on scary moment
at the end when it went up missing the big end apart from when it better face off apart everyone
died and that's the end of my story no there was a moment where it had to go back for repeated
fittings and on the very last appointment she said she thinks there was a dodgy anesthetic
and all these crowds had gathered around to watch at this point because they've got quite a name
for themselves for having this leopard in the dentist so crowds of people in the room the
dentist said i'm pretty sure the leopard just blinked at me and they said don't be silly it's an
esotize 30 seconds later it that a massive roar and then climbed up off the table she said the
crowd she's never seen a crowd disappear from a room so fast they just jumped out the windows and
stuff and uh they had to chase it around and anesthetize it again which she then pointed out
i'd only ever really worked on cheaters which apparently who knew have very prominent veins
so very easy to um to vaccinate to anesthetize difficult to catch though the cheater but one
of the things they had to do as well so the the um the line had got up and sorry the leopard had
got up and it was walking around and the the dentist was too freaked out and didn't want to help with
the grappling of it and they were all freaking out and some of them ran out onto the road and by
chance the vet was walking down the road and they're like vet get here and out and the vet was
like what's something we've got a leopard that's awake and he ran in and helped hold down the
leopard and they they re-anesthetized it but like just total coincidence as they ran out that this
guy was just probably going to the shops and suddenly there was a leopard crisis in a film
he'd be like what are the chances he's walking by at that moment not realistic i think anesthetizing
the animals is one of the main problems of these kind of veterinary dentist isn't it because you
know anesthetizing animals is just a difficult thing to do i was reading about one in 24 which
was a jaguar called hebalba who needed five root canals and um they gave it anesthetic but unfortunately
the jaguar went into cardiac arrest and stopped breathing because it reacted badly to the anesthesia
and so the dentist who was called Nameak said that they tried a quick yank on the cat's testicles
and he was awake just like that and the jaguar completely recovered that's yeah dentists do
that that's normal isn't it yank on your butch did i yeah you um you swallow your rinse you spit
the dentist gives you a quick yank down there and then you go you get the sticker isn't it
i have my testicles yanked by mr smithson it seems like you have to have nerves of steel to go into
this kind of dentistry the animal world dentistry i was reading about a guy called peter emily he's
82 years old and he's a pioneer in this territory he says that he's operated basically on everything
with a mouth so he's done kangaroo he's done ferrets he did syggreen royce he's done a river
and in this article he was operating on a lion's head so you can imagine if that line wakes up
it's going to be terrifying while he was operating on the lion's mouth can we just say that as a
dentist most of the work he does is head based isn't it oh yes true what my point of saying that
though is at the very same time someone's down at the other end removing the lion's testicles so it
was it's a scary procedure yeah if you woke up that's one pissed off lion and then as he's doing
that procedure they bring in next to him a black leopard which is just laying perpendicular on the
table next to this lion so he's just surrounded in animals that if i can i ask would just rip his
head off why did they decide to take the testicles and the teeth out of the same time it's a two for
one also i don't just have one of those oh yeah yeah i have to say no complaints they are
in this case they were they were using them to um grow stem cells so it was two different
things happening from two different people it wasn't yeah in order to help out with a tooth
i guess if anesthetizing is hard which it is and i guess you don't want to do it too often so i
suppose you sort of take what chances you get while you've got a knocked out lion so there was
a guy a zoo dentist in the uk called peter another peter actually peter katech of paint and zoo he is
again one of the only zoo dentists in the world and in 2008 he did an operation on a gorilla
at paint and zoo and it took about 10 people to remove the gorilla's tooth because you've
got people positioning the gorilla you've got people monitoring the anesthetics you've got all
sorts of activity happening around and there's this huge you know 300 pound gorilla sitting
in the chair completely dead to the world and he's having to operate on it and he said peter
peter katech was interviewed and he said people often asked me if it is fun working on gorillas
and tigers it certainly is not fun it is very hard and serious work oh what a killjoy he's having
fun watching sat next to heaven and wedding yeah well tell us about the gorilla it's not fun
oh my god what a cool job wow it's actually horrible okay moving on um in terms of dentistry
it's not even just the teeth that they have to deal with so um this guy that was talking about
peter emily he also works on bird beaks as well and he's pioneered a speciality which he calls
ortho beakics and beak braces right i think he's the guy who does bird braces for beaks if you've
got i think the condition is called scissor beak technically isn't you know when you have a faulty
pair of scissors and the you can imagine the two bits not a faulty pair of scissors sorry a functioning
pair of scissors but the two bits don't crash into each other like a beak should they slide over
each other and so that's what scissor beak is um so he has braces for birds that they have to wear
and eventually it wrenches them back into place but they do get bullied at school i just say if
it's a crossbill they're supposed to be like that oh no do you think he's ruined loads of crossbills
they're just called bell yeah um rats if anyone has a pet rat uh they sometimes perform dentistry
on their owners oh and this is a thing that people let them do as i i find rats quite gross uh as i
think a lot of us do but what they like to do is inspect each other's teeth for spare food so they
often get food stuck in their teeth and their mate will have you know a bit of dairy milk stuck in
its tooth so they'll go and lick the food off and if you own a rat and you show it your teeth no it
will lick between your teeth and lick the food out and who needs a toothpick when you've got a pet
rat and people have been doing this i mean how many is is this a comment i have a friend who had a
pet rat i'm not going to tell you who it is because you know them i don't think that they will have
done that what you're saying james is that is this is this rare enough that we can make fun of it
and shame the people who do it or is it very common and we should be careful is it so common
that i need to rethink my friend's group they also have rank teeth anyway rats sorry no offense to
rats but they grow faster than human nails so they have to be constantly gnawing so you need to give
them stuff to chew all the time and they grow in spirals at an 85 degree angle so if their teeth come
out their mouths and they don't gnaw enough then they grow in this big spiral and when they're
chewing the masseter muscle which is the muscle that controls their jaw is positioned behind
their eyeballs so if you watch videos of rats chewing they do a thing called boggling at the
same time which is when their eyes that's dan's favourite band isn't it the boggles
sorry what is a boggling sorry ana it's known as what you think their eyes pop in and out of
their heads as they chew can i give you guys the fact about just general dentistry you know how we
all love uh nominative determinism yeah well i have gone off it a little bit i have to say
i have to read in this fact and i think that it might not be true um because i read that the first
woman to qualify as a dentist in england was called miss fanny pain and i think if nominative
determinism was real she would have been a gynecologist yeah fanny there should be something
called nominative anti determinism or something where they've gone the wrong way um so she um
qualified in 1914 there were um there were a few dentists before her because a few people
qualified in scotland before that uh female dentist i should say but like in the 19th century really
you only had male dentists uh and then there was fanny pain uh and there was another woman called
lillian lindsey um who became the first um female to qualify as a dentist in the whole u k because
she did hers in in scotland uh and it was so looked down upon um that when she tried to join the
national dental hospital in great portland street um the dean who was called harry vice harry harry
what harry harry vice yeah that's what causes the fanny pain he was called harry vice harry
wise harry vice and he refused to admit her because she was a woman and then when she
really insisted um he would only interview her on the pavement outside the school because he
didn't want her to distract all the other dentists who were inside wow but yeah eventually they did
and now i think um it's more than 50 of dentists in europe i think are women um people are trying
home dentistry now are they and i'll think it flies not to so is this a coronavirus thing
yep the economist reported on various dentists saying that they're very worried because a lot
of their patients are saying they're doing things like uh using needles to burst their
own abscesses uh in their mouths they're using knives and forks to take their teeth out and nail
files to cut down broken teeth my word i've actually been doing this myself at home and it's a real
nightmare because i've been having to yank on my own testicles when i'm finished okay that's it
that is all of our facts thank you so much for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any
of us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast we can be found on our
twitter accounts i'm on at shribeland andy at andrew hunter m james at james harkin and ana
you can email podcast at qi.com yep or you can go to our group account which is at no such thing
or go to our website no such thing as a fish.com and check out all of our previous episodes as
well as links to bits of our merchandise um that's it we will be back again with another episode
we'll see you then guys goodbye